docs/site/tutorials/todo/todo-tutorial-putting-it-together.md, before:

---
lang: en
title: 'Putting it all together'
keywords: LoopBack 4.0, LoopBack 4
sidebar: lb4_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb4/todo-tutorial-putting-it-together.html
summary: LoopBack 4 Todo Application Tutorial - Putting it all together
---

### Putting it all together

We've got all of our artifacts now, and they are all automatically bound to our
[Application](../../Application.md) so that LoopBack's
[Dependency injection](../../Dependency-injection.md) system can tie it all
together for us!

LoopBack's
[boot module](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/tree/master/packages/boot)
will automatically discover our controllers, repositories, datasources and other
artifacts and inject them into our application for use.

> **NOTE**: The boot module will discover and inject artifacts that follow our
> established conventions for artifact directories. Here are some examples:
>
> - Controllers: `./src/controllers`
> - Datasources: `./src/datasources`
> - Models: `./src/models`
> - Repositories: `./src/repositories`
>
> To find out how to customize this behavior, see the
> [Booters](../../Booting-an-Application.md#booters) section of
> [Booting an Application](../../Booting-an-Application.md).

Let's try out our application! First, you'll want to start the app.

```sh
$ npm start

Server is running at http://127.0.0.1:3000
```

Next, you can use the [API Explorer](http://localhost:3000/explorer) to browse
your API and make requests!

Here are some requests you can try:

- `POST /todos` with a body of `{ "title": "get the milk" }`
- `GET /todos/{id}` using the ID you received from your `POST`, and see if you
  get your Todo object back.
- `PATCH /todos/{id}`, using the same ID, with a body of
  `{ "desc": "need milk for cereal" }`

That's it! You've just created your first LoopBack 4 application!

_Note: Use **CTRL+C** to stop the application_

### Where to go from here

There are still a ton of features you can use to build on top of the
`TodoListApplication`. Here are some tutorials that continues off from where we
left off here to guide you through adding in an additional feature:

- **Integrate with a REST based geo-coding service**: A typical REST API server
  needs to access data from a variety of sources, including SOAP or REST
  services. Continue to the bonus section to learn how LoopBack connectors make
  it super easy to fetch data from other services and
  [enhance your Todo application with location-based reminders](todo-tutorial-geocoding-service.md).
- **Add related Model with TodoListApplication**: If you would like to try out
  using some of the more advanced features of LoopBack 4 such as relations, try
  out the
  [TodoList tutorial](https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/todo-list-tutorial.html)
  which continues off from where we leave here.

### More examples and tutorials

Eager to continue learning about LoopBack 4? Check out our
[Examples](../../Examples.md) and [Tutorials](../../Tutorials.md) sections to
find examples for creating your own custom components, sequences and more!

### Navigation

Previous step: [Add a controller](todo-tutorial-controller.md)

Commit message:

feat(example-rest-crud): add example showing CrudRestApiBuilder
This is an example showing how to use `CrudRestApiBuilder` along with the Todo example in order to create the default repository and controller. The repository and controller classes can now be removed and replaced with a `ModelCrudRestApiConfig` configuration and adding `CrudRestComponent` to the application.

docs/site/tutorials/todo/todo-tutorial-putting-it-together.md, after:

---
lang: en
title: 'Putting it all together'
keywords: LoopBack 4.0, LoopBack 4
sidebar: lb4_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb4/todo-tutorial-putting-it-together.html
summary: LoopBack 4 Todo Application Tutorial - Putting it all together
---

### Putting it all together

We've got all of our artifacts now, and they are all automatically bound to our
[Application](../../Application.md) so that LoopBack's
[Dependency injection](../../Dependency-injection.md) system can tie it all
together for us!

LoopBack's
[boot module](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/tree/master/packages/boot)
will automatically discover our controllers, repositories, datasources and other
artifacts and inject them into our application for use.

> **NOTE**: The boot module will discover and inject artifacts that follow our
> established conventions for artifact directories. Here are some examples:
>
> - Controllers: `./src/controllers`
> - Datasources: `./src/datasources`
> - Models: `./src/models`
> - Repositories: `./src/repositories`
>
> To find out how to customize this behavior, see the
> [Booters](../../Booting-an-Application.md#booters) section of
> [Booting an Application](../../Booting-an-Application.md).

Let's try out our application! First, you'll want to start the app.

```sh
$ npm start

Server is running at http://127.0.0.1:3000
```

Next, you can use the [API Explorer](http://localhost:3000/explorer) to browse
your API and make requests!

Here are some requests you can try:

- `POST /todos` with a body of `{ "title": "get the milk" }`
- `GET /todos/{id}` using the ID you received from your `POST`, and see if you
  get your Todo object back.
- `PATCH /todos/{id}`, using the same ID, with a body of
  `{ "desc": "need milk for cereal" }`

That's it! You've just created your first LoopBack 4 application!

_Note: Use **CTRL+C** to stop the application_

### Where to go from here

There are still a ton of features you can use to build on top of the
`TodoListApplication`. Here are some tutorials that continues off from where we
left off here to guide you through adding in an additional feature:

- **Integrate with a REST based geo-coding service**: A typical REST API server
  needs to access data from a variety of sources, including SOAP or REST
  services. Continue to the bonus section to learn how LoopBack connectors make
  it super easy to fetch data from other services and
  [enhance your Todo application with location-based reminders](todo-tutorial-geocoding-service.md).
- **Add related Model with TodoListApplication**: If you would like to try out
  using some of the more advanced features of LoopBack 4 such as relations, try
  out the
  [TodoList tutorial](https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/todo-list-tutorial.html)
  which continues off from where we leave here.

### More examples and tutorials

Eager to continue learning about LoopBack 4? Check out our
[Examples](../../Examples.md) and [Tutorials](../../Tutorials.md) sections to
find examples for creating your own custom components, sequences and more!

In fact, this example can be simplified to only defining the model and
datasource, while still behaving the same. Using
[`CrudRestComponent`](https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb4/apidocs.rest-crud.crudrestcomponent.html),
the repository and controller classes can be omitted, as seen in the
[rest-crud example](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-next/tree/master/examples/rest-crud).

### Navigation

Previous step: [Add a controller](todo-tutorial-controller.md)
